------------------------ Submission 2155, Review 4 ------------------------

Title: "Those who can't do, teach": a Teachable Robotic Agent for Children Learning Handwriting

Reviewer:           primary

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   This paper is a good fit for the Technologies theme since the central
   focus and contribution relates to development of an autonomous
   interactive system.

Meta Review

   The reviewers found the central focus of the paper compelling.  The paper
   addresses an important research problem and the autonomous operation of
   the robot during the teaching process is a significant strength of the
   paper.


   The reviewers raised several concerns regarding the paper:

   - The coverage of related work in the field of robotics is entirely
   insufficient for a conference paper.

   - The authors should consider revising the title of the paper, since it
   could be seen as offensive to educators.

   - Reviewers were divided in their comments regarding the writing style,
   though all three reviewers had suggestions for improvement.  The authors
   should make revisions to improve clarity, focus and level of detail in
   certain sections, as outlined in the reviews.  Increased use of active
   voice is also recommended.

   - R1 raises a number of concerns regarding the soundness of the
   methodology.  We encourage the authors to respond to these concerns in
   their rebuttal comments.

   - One of the main contributions claimed by the authors, is the first
   investigation of the use of robots in learning by teaching.  This
   narrative will need to be significantly altered due to the presence of
   prior work in this area, as listed in the reviews.  We recommend that
   authors outline their plans for the relevant revisions in the rebuttal.

   =======================

   PC MEETING UPDATE: This paper was discussed at the PC meeting and
   received with enthusiasm. The committee was excited by the system design
   and appreciated the robust in situ deployment. Acceptance of the paper is
   conditional on the following being addressed in the final version of the
   paper: (1) The related work on robot learning needs to be appropriately
   covered, specifically on teaching robots (including robot learning from
   demonstration) and Tanaka and Matsuzoe’s (2012) work on learning from
   teaching. (2) The current work then needs to be appropriately situated
   within the related work review, without overstating the novelty claims.
   (3) Claims reported in the user study need to be toned down, and limited
   to only those that can be conclusively drawn from recorded data. (Or are
   very clear whenever what is being reported is drawn from a qualitative
   observation rather than a quantitative measure.) It is recommended that
   reporting on the user study be discussed in terms of the technical
   deployment and what can be concretely measured with respect to this,
   rather than speculating on user acceptance and claims that cannot be
   backed up with concrete measures.

   =======================

Recommendation

   3  (Overall, I would not argue for or against this paper. I am truly on the fence.)


------------------------ Submission 2155, Review 1 ------------------------

Title: "Those who can't do, teach": a Teachable Robotic Agent for Children Learning Handwriting

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   This paper describes and attempts to validate aspects of an educational
   robotic system that permits children to teach handwriting to the robot.

   Author-claimed contributions:
   1) A relatively inexpensive robot system that can write on a tablet in a
   “believable” way (i.e., the child attributes the writing to the
   robot).
   2) PCA-based method for generating a range of letter styles, some of
   which are of low quality, eliciting correction.
   3) A component that converts child demonstrations of handwriting to an
   incremental change in the parameter vector that the robot uses to
   generate its letters, allowing the robot to learn from children’s
   feedback.
   4) An integrated system that autonomously learns handwriting from
   children teachers.

   These contributions fit the enabling technologies theme, but they appear
   to fall short of the studies theme, since the account of the research
   method is fairly high level (and missing some important information, as
   discussed later) and it’s not clear that the result of this study is
   “new understanding, principles, [or] design recommendations for HRI”.
   Given that the paper fits the primary theme sufficiently, I do not
   penalize it for falling short of the criteria for the studies theme.

Strengths and Weaknesses

   Strengths:

   - A compelling application and an impressive system that mostly seems
   well motivated.

   - The topic is important and relevant to HRI.

   - Good coverage of related work on the side of the educational aspect of
   this work.


   Weaknesses:

   - Related work lacks any citations of research on teachable robots or
   agents or even robots or agents that act as educational characters, which
   is unacceptable. (I’m not counting the apparent self-citation.) A
   further consequence of this issue is that novelty is not sufficiently
   addressed by the authors. This work needs to be properly situated.

   - The writing needs major revision, since it’s highly verbose, includes
   poorly justified assertions, and is generally very difficult to read.
   Despite the content of the research being very straightforward, I found
   parsing most sentences/paragraphs of this paper quite frustrating. More
   information in the Presentation section below.

   - Some of the conclusions made about the system’s validation are poorly
   justified. More info in the Soundness section.

   - The authors appear to violate double-blindness in up to 3 ways: by
   providing a URL to their code that contains “EPFL”, an apparent self
   citation “Learning to write with a robot” from EPFL (given that this
   paper claims to be the “first known robotic partner which children can
   teach handwriting”, I assume that this citation is the same project),
   and an apparent experimenter’s face appearing in Figure 8.

Soundness

   The authors do not assess how educational their system is. I can accept
   that at this point in the research, which seems sufficient for a
   conference publication. Instead, they attempt to validate the components
   of their system. There is much to like in this validation: robot
   interaction with a good number of children, adjustments to system design
   based on observations, and autonomous interaction was largely successful
   (i.e., didn’t need interventions unless robot fell over).

   However, there are considerable issues with the methods and conclusions
   within this validation.

   (1) The authors claim their system can generate letters with
   “inappropriate internal proportions” and “global deformations”
   (which need definitions) based on the analysis described as follows:
   “It would be reasonable to consider the shapes in Figure 2 in the same
   general categories.” Calling something reasonable does not make it so.
   The authors then make the unjustified claim that “sufficient
   capabilities… have been demonstrated.”

   (2) To assess whether the children believed that the letter-writing
   trajectories shown on the tablet were being created by the robot, the
   children were asked whether the robot could write its own name. This
   question does not directly address believability, and there are plausible
   interpretations of a “yes” answer that do not include the child
   believing that the robot wrote what he or she saw on the tablet. For
   instance, the child might think that the robot can write well but did not
   actually write during the interaction. Thus, believability has not been
   validated sufficiently. (Also, I recommend never saying that something is
   generally “proven” when based on a limited sample.)

   (3) “For example, for the model shown in Figure 1, the parameters may
   represent the height of the top half of the letter compared to the bottom
   half, the width of the overall shape, etc. Consequently, the shape
   modelling process has produced the desired outcomes of parameterising the
   shapes in ways which are able to be used to deform them meaningfully.”
   - The author’s subjective appraisal of what variations are captured by
   PCA is insufficient to claim the the deformations are meaningful.
   Further, the word “meaningful” lacks grounding (what exactly does it
   mean here)?

   Additionally, more information is needed about the evaluation. How was
   the initial parameter vector for a letter drawn? With what wording were
   children asked whether they believed “the robot was learning and that
   they were the ones teaching it”? For the robot-drawn letters that were
   not “in response to demonstrations from the children”, were they all
   from new words?

Related Work

   The authors do a good job of citing related work on the educational side
   of their work. However, the paper must situate itself amongst other work
   on robots and simulated agents that act as teachers, pupils, or
   educational companions.

   Relevant work includes Justin Werfel’s paper “Embodied Teachable
   Agents: Learning by Teaching Robots”, Knox and Stone’s IJSR 2012
   paper How Humans Teach Agents (which discusses the benefits of using
   computational agents in lieu of human confederates in studies),
   Tanaka’s “Children teach a care-receiving robot to promote their
   learning: Field experiments in a classroom for vocabulary learning.”,
   and Chase et al.’s “Teachable Agents and the Protege Effect…”.

   On robots that interact educationally with people, there’s Kanda et
   al.’s “Interactive robots as social partners and peer tutors for
   children”, Kory and Breazeal’s “Storytelling with robots: Learning
   companions for preschool children’s language development”, Leyzberg
   et al.’s “Personalizing robot tutors to individuals’ learning
   differences”, Chang et al.’s “Exploring the possibility of using
   humanoid robots as instructional tools for teaching a second language in
   primary school”, Johnson et al.’s “Design and early evaluation of
   the rubi-5 sociable robots”, and Movellan et al.’s “Sociable robot
   improves toddler vocabulary skills”.

Presentation

   The presentation is the largest issue with this paper. Issues with
   examples are below.

   - highly verbose (and often redundant)-

   I think that this paper could be condensed to a 5-page paper without
   losing any content. Doing so should also dramatically increase its
   readability. Some examples of how writing could become more concise and
   clearer are below.

   Original: “An application which is yet to be explored, however, is that
   of handwriting intervention.”

   Revised (slightly shorter and with more connection to the previous
   sentence): “Handwriting intervention is a previously unexplored
   application of this paradigm.”

   Original: “Presented is the development of the first known teachable
   agent which is capable of artificially making mistakes typical of
   children learning handwriting, and correcting them with external
   feedback. Such a system therefore exhibits the potential to engage
   children in the learning by teaching paradigm in the context of
   handwriting.”

   Revised: “We present the development of the first known teachable agent
   that intentionally makes mistakes typical of children learning
   handwriting. Through this capability, the robot can be taught by
   children, who themselves may learn through their teaching.”

   Original: “The robot responds to the word request verbally and writes
   the letters by pointing at the tablet and imitating writing the letters.
   The tablet, placed in front of the robot with a vertical, landscape
   orientation, displays the letters in synchronisation with the robot’s
   movements.”

   Revised: “The robot writes the letters according to the method
   described in Section X.”

   An exception is the paragraph “However, we believe that…”, which is
   concise and clear than the rest of the paper.

   - vague writing -

   “provides context for robotics in education” - What is meant by
   context here?

   “which is capable of generating the necessary letter models” -
   Necessary according to what criteria?

   “a shape center of 0” - What’s really meant here is that the
   normalized trajectory points average 0, correct? (If so, this quotation
   is both vague and incorrect, since the trajectory and the shape it makes
   are not the same thing.)

   - overuse of actor removal -

   Perhaps in an attempt to strike a scholarly tone, the authors often
   remove themselves as actors. There is some precedent for this in academic
   writing, but here (and most places) it leads to ambiguity, a lack of
   energy in the writing, and difficult-to-parse writing.

   “The following conclusions were successfully drawn” - By whom? Easier
   to read and more honest: “We drew the following conclusions”

   “It was reasoned” -> “We reasoned”

   “While it is expected that” -> “We expect that”

   Honestly, I don’t actually know for sure who was doing the reasoning or
   reporting their expectations above. I just assume it’s the authors. But
   I don’t know because they removed the actor in these sentences.

   - includes numerous poorly justified assertions and some bad logic -

   Some larger examples are already in the Soundness section above, but
   there are many smaller examples as well.

   “experimentally proven to provide convincing scaffolding” -
   Convincing according to what metric? Also, scaffolding itself was never
   even mentioned before this (and thus was not actually assessed).

   “tablet-based application, which children are increasingly recognizing
   as a disposable technology.” This is a strong claim that lacks any
   evidence or argumentation. It’s not even clear what it means for an app
   to be “disposable”.

   In point #2 at the end of the first page, the authors imply that a robot
   can draw a letter but an app can only show it in a completely drawn state
   (not draw it along a trajectory at handwriting speed), which is false.

   - many long sentences that are difficult to read -

   “With some of the challenges towards an engaging long- term handwriting
   intervention with the teachable robotic partner addressed, further steps
   can be made towards an- swering the central question of what impact to
   the outcomes of interventions the addition of such a teachable robotic
   agent would have, including the effect on the participants’
   self-esteem, motivation, and learning gains.”

   The last two bullets on the final page are much too long and difficult to
   read.

   Long sentences should be broken up for readability.

   - definitions needed -

   protege effect, inappropriate internal proportions, global deformations

Suggestions

   Please see above for specific suggestions.

   Also, I recommend removing “Those who cannot do, teach” from the
   title. This phrase is an insult to teachers, and it’s unclear how
   it’s relevant to this work.

Recommendation

   This paper describes compelling work on an important project, but it
   needs to be revised with a fine-tooth comb to be more readable. Further,
   the paper needs more rigor with regards to its assertions and attempts to
   validate the system. I encourage the authors to revise and resubmit this
   interesting research.

Overall Rating

   3  (Overall, I would not argue for or against this paper. I am truly on the fence.)


------------------------ Submission 2155, Review 2 ------------------------

Title: "Those who can't do, teach": a Teachable Robotic Agent for Children Learning Handwriting

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   This paper contributes an autonomous HRI system for children to improve
   their handwriting by teaching a robot to improve its handwriting.

Strengths and Weaknesses

   Originality: This work is original.

   Novelty: This work is novel (although the authors should cite some
   additional prior work on care-receiving robots; see the "Prior Work"
   section of this review).

   Relevance: This work is extremely relevant to HRI.

Soundness

   The work is very sound, although it's unclear which parts of the shape
   modeling algorithm are novel.  This review is written under the
   assumption that the idea of shape modeling is not novel, but that using
   the model to generate "bad" examples is.  Otherwise, the system design
   and evaluation are excellent.

Related Work

   The authors should cite the following, which is directly relevant to
   their work:

   Tanaka, F., & Matsuzoe, S. (2012). Children Teach a Care-Receiving Robot
   to Promote Their Learning: Field Experiments in a Classroom for
   Vocabulary Learning. Journal of Human-Robot Interaction, 1(1).
   doi:10.5898/jhri.v1i1.12

   More background on handwriting recognition and generation might be
   helpful for the reader who is not expert in that area.

Presentation

   The presentation is very good, although some of the technical details on
   synchronization could be omitted in favor of providing more detail on the
   studies described.  The section on the studies (4.2) could also be split
   into several sections to improve readability.

Suggestions

   -- the authors should reduce their claims that the idea of the robot as a
   learner is a novel contribution of this paper, given the citation above.
   The work is sufficiently interesting without this in any case.
   -- as the authors mention, it remains to be seen what the effect is of
   the system on learning handwriting
   -- as mentioned above, the authors should consider reducing the space
   dedicated to the synchronization (a technical challenge, to be sure, but
   not especially interesting from a research perspective) and dedicate more
   attention to the studies.
   -- the authors might address how their system can deal with and/or
   produce mistakes that aren't just deformations; e.g. writing a letter
   backwards.

Recommendation

   It is always exciting to see a fully-autonomous human-robot interaction
   study with children.  The poor-handwriting generation algorithm is clever
   and the results are promising for continuing work in this area.

Overall Rating

   5  (Definite accept: I would argue strongly for accepting this paper.)


------------------------ Submission 2155, Review 3 ------------------------

Title: "Those who can't do, teach": a Teachable Robotic Agent for Children Learning Handwriting

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   The authors have developed a system (NAO and a tablet) that can be
   applied in an interaction with children to enhance their handwriting. The
   focus of the paper is on the system development, and first observations
   from the interaction study are provided.

Strengths and Weaknesses

   The paper describes an innovative task in which robots can interact with
   children for pedagogical purposes. The motivation for this task is very
   well researched. A fully autonomous system is put into the interaction.
   Furthermore, even though the authors apply a quite known “learning by
   teaching paradigm”, they extend the potential of it describing some
   very interesting observations (second key point). Accordingly, other
   children were observed to give advice to the child designated as the
   letter demonstrator. This behavior bears high potential for being
   analyzed in terms of what knowledge is negotiated by the group of
   children.

   The weaknesses of the paper lay in the part, in which the results of the
   interaction study are reported. Unfortunately, the presentation lacks any
   standards. I got the impression that the analyses are ongoing. Only for
   some observations (duration of a session), descriptive statistics are
   provided.

Soundness

   The paper is well written. The presentation of the results needs to
   follow a more standardized outline.

Related Work

   I suggest that the authors take Tanaka and Matsuzoe’s (2012) work on
   learning by teaching paradigm into account.

Presentation

   The presentation of the results needs to be revised. I suggest that the
   authors specify information about: (i) the participants (what age groups
   were interacting with the robot) and (ii) the procedure (by referring to
   Figure 8).
   Another problem is that as the results are presented now, it seems like
   no dependent measures were taken. In one observation, the authors refer
   to the children’s responses but they never mention how many children
   provided this kind of answer. With respect to the different age groups
   that interacted, the authors need to either to focus on one in their
   results or to analyze how the interaction differed in these groups.

Suggestions


Recommendation

   While the paper has some weaknesses, it should be included in the
   technical program as it makes important and interesting contributions to
   (1) the system design and task that can be used in interaction with
   children and (2) the learning by teaching paradigm. In addition, I think
   that the presentation of the results can be revised and improved by the
   authors.

Overall Rating

   4  (Probably accept: I would argue for accepting this paper.)


------------------------ Submission 2155, Review 5 ------------------------

Title: "Those who can't do, teach": a Teachable Robotic Agent for Children Learning Handwriting

Reviewer:           secondary

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   This work introduces a paradigm that engages children as teachers of
   robots for a handwriting task. The paradigm introduces a principled
   method (with maths grounded in PCA) to generate poorly written letters
   and then update the letter generation based on feedback from the child
   teacher. The paradigm is implemented on a real system (NAO + tablet), and
   assessed within a school environment. The results of the user study are
   promising. The contributions of this work are very relevant for the field
   of HRI.

Secondary Meta Review

   There is disagreement across reviewers with respect to overall rating
   (2-5), but agreement about the topic being an important one for HRI.
   Concerns were raised about the treatment of prior work, which the authors
   commit to addressing. The authors' rebuttal claim that the application of
   a teaching by learning paradigm to a physical skill is novel is somewhat
   off base: for the human, it is a teaching by learning paradigm, but for
   the robot, this is a learning from demonstration (LfD) paradigm---and
   there is a large existing body of work on LfD applied to physical tasks
   (including fine motor). While some concerns were raised about the
   scientific methodology of the user studies, these were not shared by all
   reviewers, and the development of this system (algorithm and hardware
   implementation) and deployment within a school is a contribution in its
   own right. Concerns were raised about the authors' overstating their
   contributions and conclusions, which they commit to addressing.

Recommendation

   4  (Probably accept: I would argue for accepting this paper.)